docs(sentry-basics): Consolidate tutorials into one getting-started tutorial (#18709)
getsentry/sentry-docs: docs/product/sentry-basics/getting-started-tutorial/enable-readable-stack-traces.mdx

> Using a different bundler? Use the [Sentry Wizard](/platforms/javascript/sourcemaps/#uploading-source-maps) to configure source maps for webpack, Rollup, esbuild, Next.js, and others, then skip to step 3.

## 1. Install the Sentry Vite Plugin

In the `tracing-tutorial-frontend` project folder, install the plugin as a dev dependency:

```bash {tabTitle:npm}
npm install @sentry/vite-plugin --save-dev
```

```bash {tabTitle:yarn}
yarn add @sentry/vite-plugin --dev
```

```bash {tabTitle:pnpm}
pnpm add @sentry/vite-plugin --save-dev
```

## 2. Add an Auth Token

To upload source maps, the plugin needs an _auth token_ — a secret key that tells Sentry the upload is coming from you. You'll keep this token in a separate file instead of writing it directly into your code, so it stays private.

<OrgAuthTokenNote />

The Sentry Vite plugin automatically reads your token from a file named exactly `.env.sentry-build-plugin`. Create that file now:

1. In the **root** of the `tracing-tutorial-frontend` folder (the same folder that contains `package.json`), create a new file named exactly `.env.sentry-build-plugin` — including the leading dot.

> 1. Add your auth token to the file, replacing `___ORG_AUTH_TOKEN___` with the token you generated above:

Reviewer: For some reason, `__ORG_AUTH_TOKEN__` is being replaced by `SENTRY_AUTH_TOKEN=sntrys_YOUR_TOKEN_HERE`. I can see it flipping over when I refresh the page. Not sure what's going on there. 

<img width="1083" height="259" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4a6154e0-2705-499e-9d89-1ad34652f845" />

Author: This is actually expected behavior, __ORG_AUTH_TOKEN__ is actually a placeholder in docs and in production a signed-in user will see their actual org token, if you're not signed in it defaults to sntrys_YOUR_TOKEN_HERE. You can see how the behavior works in prod on https://docs.sentry.io/cli/configuration/

Reviewer: It looks `__ORG_AUTH_TOKEN__` is just a placeholder that I never actually see as the user, though. I only ever either see the token or `sntrys_YOUR_TOKEN_HERE`. I suggest updating to this instead: 

```suggestion
1. Add your auth token to the file, using the snippet below. Replace the placeholder with the token you generated above:
```

      org: "___ORG_SLUG___",
      project: "___PROJECT_SLUG___",
    }),
  ],
  server: {
    port: 3000,
  },
});
```

<Alert>

Your `org` and `project` here must point to the **same frontend project** as the DSN in `src/main.jsx`. Source maps are matched within a project — if your maps upload to one project but your errors report to another, Sentry won't be able to un-minify them.

</Alert>

By default, the plugin deletes the source map files from your build output after uploading them, so they're not served to your users in production.

## 4. Trigger the Error Again

1. Stop your dev server with `Ctrl + C` and create a production build:

   ```bash {tabTitle:npm}
   npm run build
   ```

   ```bash {tabTitle:yarn}
   yarn build
   ```

   ```bash {tabTitle:pnpm}
   pnpm build
   ```

   Look for the `Source Map Upload Report` in the output — it confirms the maps reached Sentry and lists each file by debug ID:

   ```bash
   > Analyzing 2 sources
   > Adding source map references
   > Bundling files for upload
   > Uploaded files to Sentry
   > Successfully uploaded source maps to Sentry
   ```

2. Serve the production build:

   ```bash {tabTitle:npm}
   npm run preview

>    ```

Reviewer: Looks like, by default, vite preview serves on port 4173. Should be noted.

Reviewer: Actually, just hardcoded the preview port too [in a PR. ](https://github.com/getsentry/tracing-tutorial-frontend/pull/7)

Author: Perfect, ty!

   ```bash {tabTitle:yarn}
   yarn preview
   ```

   ```bash {tabTitle:pnpm}
   pnpm preview
   ```

> 3. Open the app (make sure the backend is still running on `http://localhost:3001`), open your browser's dev console, and perform an "Empty Cache and Hard Reload" so the new build is served. Then trigger the cross-project error again by clicking the **Nonfat Water** button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Open the app (make sure the backend is still running on `http://localhost:3001`), open your browser's dev console, and right-click the reload button, then select 'Empty Cache and Hard Reload' so the new build is served. Then trigger the cross-project error again by clicking the **Nonfat Water** button. 
```

Congrats — you've built a fully instrumented fullstack app with Sentry. You now have:

- Cross-project distributed tracing from your frontend to your backend
- Readable stack traces with source code context

To go deeper, explore:

- [Suspect commits & stack trace linking](/product/issues/suspect-commits/) — connect the [GitHub integration](/integrations/source-code-mgmt/github/) so Sentry can point to the commit that likely caused an error and link each stack frame straight to your source on GitHub.
- [Seer](/product/ai-in-sentry/seer/) — Sentry's AI debugging agent. Connect your GitHub or GitLab repo and Seer can analyze issues, find the root cause, and even open a pull request with a fix. (Seer is a paid add-on; see [Seer pricing](/pricing/#seer-pricing).)
- [Session Replay](/product/explore/session-replay/) — see a video-like reproduction of what the user did before the error
- [Alerts](/product/monitors-and-alerts/alerts/) — get notified in Slack or Discord about the issues you care about
- [Dashboards](/product/dashboards/sentry-dashboards/) — track error and performance trends across your services
- [Releases](/product/releases/) — monitor release health over time

> To set up Sentry on a project that isn't the sample app, head to the [Platforms](/platforms/) page and pick your stack.

Reviewer: It seems like this should be one the `/product/sentry-basics/getting-started-tutorial/generate-first-error/` page instead, considering the source maps page is listed as optional.
